# Fraud-detection

Financial fraud is a growing concern with far reaching consequences in the government, corporate organizations, finance industry, In Today’s world high dependency on internet technology has enjoyed increased credit card transactions but credit card fraud had also accelerated as online and offline transaction. As credit card transactions become a widespread mode of payment, focus has been given to recent computational methodologies to handle the credit card fraud problem. There are many fraud detection solutions and software which prevent frauds in businesses such as credit card, retail, e-commerce, insurance, and industries. 

Data mining technique is one notable and popular methods used in solving credit fraud detection problem. It is impossible to be sheer certain about the true intention and rightfulness behind an application or transaction. In reality, to seek out possible evidences of fraud from the available data using mathematical algorithms is the best effective option. Fraud detection in credit card is the truly the process of identifying those transactions that are fraudulent into two classes of legit class and fraud class transactions, several techniques are designed and implemented to solve to credit card fraud detection such as genetic algorithm, artificial neural network frequent item set mining, machine learning algorithms, migrating birds optimization algorithm, comparative analysis of logistic regression, SVM, decision tree and random forest is carried out. Credit card fraud detection is a very popular but also a difficult problem to solve. 
